Refactor tutorial to 'Writing Your First Chaincode' (#1744)
hyperledger/fabric: docs/source/chaincode4ade.rst

which does not participate in state validation checks in subsequent commit phase.

In the following sections, we will explore chaincode through the eyes of an
application developer. We'll present a asset-transfer chaincode sample walkthrough,
and the purpose of each method in the Fabric Contract API. If you
are a network operator who is deploying a chaincode to running network,
visit the :doc:`deploy_chaincode` tutorial and the :doc:`chaincode_lifecycle`
concept topic.

This tutorial provides an overview of the high level APIs provided by the Fabric Contract API.
To learn more about developing smart contracts using the Fabric contract API, visit the :doc:`developapps/smartcontract` topic.

Fabric Contract API
-------------------

The ``fabric-contract-api`` provides the contract interface, a high level API for application developers to implement Smart Contracts.

> Within Hyperledger Fabric, Smart Contracts are also known as Chaincode. Working with this API provides a high level entry point to writing business logic.

Reviewer: `Smart Contracts are also known as Chaincode.`

This is not really true anymore. We now have different definitions for the two items. Chaincode is the package that is deployed, while the code is smart contracts. We should make that distinction here, maybe to the point of renaming the tutorial.

Documentation of the Fabric Contract API for different languages can be found at the links below:

  - `Go <https://godoc.org/github.com/hyperledger/fabric-contract-api-go/contractapi>`__
  - `Node.js <https://hyperledger.github.io/fabric-chaincode-node/{BRANCH}/api/>`__

>   - `Java <https://hyperledger.github.io/fabric-chaincode-java/{BRANCH}/api/org/hyperledger/fabric/contract/package-summary.html>`__

Reviewer 2: The ChaincodeStubInterface links can remain.
I'd suggest add a couple sentences mentioning that when using the contract api, each chaincode function that is called is passed a transaction context "ctx", from which you can get the chaincode stub (GetStub() ), which has functions to access the ledger (e.g. GetState() ) and make requests to update the ledger (e.g. PutState() ).

This will be a nice introductory bridge to GetState() and PutState(), which are used in the following code snippets.

.. code:: bash

  // atcc is shorthand for asset transfer chaincode
  mkdir atcc && cd atcc

Now, let's create the module and the source file that we'll fill in with code:

.. code:: bash

  go mod init atcc
  touch atcc.go

Housekeeping
^^^^^^^^^^^^

First, let's start with some housekeeping. As with every chaincode, it implements the
`fabric-contract-api interface <https://godoc.org/github.com/hyperledger/fabric-contract-api-go/contractapi>`_,
so let's add the Go import statements for the necessary dependencies for our chaincode. We'll import the
fabric contract api package and define our SmartContract.

.. code:: go

  package main

  import (
    "fmt"
    "log"
    "github.com/hyperledger/fabric-contract-api-go/contractapi"
  )

  // SmartContract provides functions for managing an Asset

>   type SmartContract struct {

Reviewer 2: indent

  contractapi.Contract
  }

> Next, let's add a struct ``Asset`` as a receiver for Chaincode functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, let's add a struct ``Asset`` to represent simple assets on the ledger. Note the JSON annotations, which will be used to marshal the asset to JSON which is stored on the ledger.
```

.. code:: go

  // Asset describes basic details of what makes up a simple asset
  type Asset struct {
    ID             string `json:"ID"`
    Color          string `json:"color"`
    Size           int    `json:"size"`
    Owner          string `json:"owner"`
    AppraisedValue int    `json:"appraisedValue"`
  }

Initializing the Chaincode
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Next, we'll implement the ``Init`` function to populate the ledger with some initial data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, we'll implement the ``InitLedger`` function to populate the ledger with some initial data.
```

.. code:: go

  // InitLedger adds a base set of assets to the ledger
  func (s *SmartContract) InitLedger(ctx contractapi.TransactionContextInterface) error {
    assets := []Asset{
      {ID: "asset1", Color: "blue", Size: 5, Owner: "Tomoko", AppraisedValue: 300},
      {ID: "asset2", Color: "red", Size: 5, Owner: "Brad", AppraisedValue: 400},
      {ID: "asset3", Color: "green", Size: 10, Owner: "Jin Soo", AppraisedValue: 500},
      {ID: "asset4", Color: "yellow", Size: 10, Owner: "Max", AppraisedValue: 600},
      {ID: "asset5", Color: "black", Size: 15, Owner: "Adriana", AppraisedValue: 700},
      {ID: "asset6", Color: "white", Size: 15, Owner: "Michel", AppraisedValue: 800},
    }

    for _, asset := range assets {
      assetJSON, err := json.Marshal(asset)
      if err != nil {
        return err
      }

      err = ctx.GetStub().PutState(asset.ID, assetJSON)
      if err != nil {
        return fmt.Errorf("failed to put to world state. %v", err)
      }
    }

    return nil
  }

> .. note:: Note that chaincode upgrade also calls this function. When writing a

Reviewer: This note should be removed. You no not need to call the Init function to upgrade the chaincode unless you use the Init required flag. If you are using the go contract API, you can use any function to initialize the chaincode.

The previous tutorial linked to this section here: https://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/chaincode_lifecycle.html#step-three-approve-a-chaincode-definition-for-your-organization Given that we are trying to push people away from this feature, it may be best not to link, and let the feature be documented there.

          chaincode that will upgrade an existing one, make sure to modify the ``Init``
          function appropriately. In particular, provide an empty "Init" method if there's

>           no "migration" or nothing to be initialized as part of the upgrade.

Reviewer 2: Remove the info about Init being called for upgrade.

.. code:: go

  // GetAllAssets returns all assets found in world state
  func (s *SmartContract) GetAllAssets(ctx contractapi.TransactionContextInterface) ([]*Asset, error) {
    // range query with empty string for startKey and endKey does an
    // open-ended query of all assets in the chaincode namespace.
    resultsIterator, err := ctx.GetStub().GetStateByRange("", "")
    if err != nil {
      return nil, err
    }
    defer resultsIterator.Close()

    var assets []*Asset
    for resultsIterator.HasNext() {
      queryResponse, err := resultsIterator.Next()
      if err != nil {
        return nil, err
      }

      var asset Asset
      err = json.Unmarshal(queryResponse.Value, &asset)
      if err != nil {
        return nil, err
      }
      assets = append(assets, &asset)
    }

    return assets, nil
  }

.. _Chaincode Sample:

Pulling it All Together
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Finally, we need to add the ``main`` function, which will call the
`ContractChaincode.Start <https://godoc.org/github.com/hyperledger/fabric-contract-api-go/contractapi#ContractChaincode.Start>`_
function. Here's the whole chaincode program source.

.. code:: go

>   package main

Reviewer 2: This code may get stale, although I do think it is helpful to see the full chaincode code inline here. But I'd also suggest to add a reference to https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric-samples/tree/master/asset-transfer-basic/chaincode-go so that they can see the most up to date code, as well as an idea for structuring the chaincode files so that it can easily be unit tested.

    // range query with empty string for startKey and endKey does an
    // open-ended query of all assets in the chaincode namespace.
    resultsIterator, err := ctx.GetStub().GetStateByRange("", "")
    if err != nil {
      return nil, err
    }
    defer resultsIterator.Close()

    var assets []*Asset
    for resultsIterator.HasNext() {
      queryResponse, err := resultsIterator.Next()
      if err != nil {
        return nil, err
      }

      var asset Asset
      err = json.Unmarshal(queryResponse.Value, &asset)
      if err != nil {
        return nil, err
      }
      assets = append(assets, &asset)
    }

    return assets, nil
  }

  func main() {
    assetChaincode, err := contractapi.NewChaincode(&SmartContract{})
    if err != nil {
      log.Panicf("Error creating asset-transfer-basic chaincode: %v", err)
    }

    if err := assetChaincode.Start(); err != nil {
      log.Panicf("Error starting asset-transfer-basic chaincode: %v", err)
    }
  }

Chaincode access control
------------------------

Chaincode can utilize the client (submitter) certificate for access

> control decisions by calling the GetClientIdentity() function. Additionally

Reviewer 2: Actually, the certificate itself is accessed with ctx.GetStub().GetCreator().
The extension APIs are available with ctx.GetClientIdentity().
